>> Maximiliano Firtman: Welcome
to PHP Fundamentals,
we will have a full day to talk
about this new language, okay?
For all language, okay, we'll see.
So we'll talk about PHP.
Let me first introduce myself.
My name is Maximiliano Firtman,
I can go by Max or Maxi it's up to you.
My website, third.dev, I'm typically
third on a lot of social networks, or
if not, third.
So I'm from Argentina,
I live in Buenos Aires, and
I've been a mobile web developer for
a while.
I have started as a web developer in 1996,
okay?
So HTML, CSS, JavaScript.
And I think my first year of,
let's say, backend developer,
we were not actually
talking about frontend and
backend at the time we were just
doing everything we were webmasters.
That was a term that we used at
the time we were just doing website,
now it's full stack developer.
But we were just doing everything.
My first year, I was actually ASP team.
ASP was actually, at that time,
we were using BBScript,
was a Microsoft alternative to PHP.
But then I have started
using PHP actually in 1999.
So yesterday I went to my
backup of all my projects, and
I capture my first dot PHP file.
It was actually from 1999, so
a lot of time actually has passed.
Actually, we will talk about today,
about PHP 8,
that's the version that we have
these days, the latest version.
And that file was actually dot PHP 3,
the first version,
the first version that I
have started using PHP 3.
So I've done more than 150 web apps,
not all of them were in PHP.
So of course, after that, I started doing
other or using other backend languages,
but I still maintain some
websites that are written in PHP.
So I'm also an author, so I author
13 books, also a lot of courses on
many topics, typically on web development,
most of the time,
around frontend, around mobile app
development and web performance.
And you can see there
are a lot of books and
covers mostly you will
find some words there.
You pick some words, mobile, web,
performance, that kind of stuff.
The latest book that I
author is Learn PWA,
that was published by Google at web.dev,
and it's free.
It's available for
free on web.dev, Learn PWA.
At Frontend Masters, also you will find a
lot of content that I author on Frontend,
progressive web apps, vanilla JavaScript,
APIs, different kind of APIs,
mobile app courses, Kotlin, Swift, Dart
with Flutter, and some backend courses.
This is kind of part of that group.
I also have another one on go.
So, what we're going to cover today?
So, we will talk about,
what's PHP, why PHP?
I think that's the first question
that most people is doing these days.
So, why?
We will see why, the PHP syntax,
we're going to start completely
from scratch, which with PHP.
We will talk about things
like super global variables.
So those are things that are kind of new,
no matter which language you coming from.
We will talk about different,
it's a different paradigm.
I mean, it's not a new paradigm because
it's been for 30 years, actually, but
it's new for most of you,
it depends on where you're coming from.
So if you're doing JavaScript,
if you're doing Java, Python,
no matter where you're coming from, we'll
talk about, okay, what's the PHP paradigm?
OOP, so Object Oriented Programming
with PHP, and working with data.
So we are going to start with the basics.
Seeing the syntax, the differences,
the life cycle of a PHP script.
And then we will make a couple of
little projects, small projects,
like we will directly live code
in some small projects, so
you will actually get that and
working with data.
In that case,
we will use a small database,
so we will see how to
use the JSON databases.
How to make an API,
how to work with that, okay?
And before talking about some advanced
techniques, debugging and best practices.
And of course, after that, there will
be much more to go over on PHP, but
you will get all the fundamentals,
the prerequisites for the course.
So what do you need to know?
It's just priming basic
experience in any language, okay,
it's fine if you know JavaScript
it's fine, if you know C it's okay.
Some OOP concept will be good.
I'm not going to explain what a class is,
what a super class is,
I will understand that you know those
concepts if not you can get them from
other courses, some HTML,
basic background will be good as well.
We're not going to write a lot of HTML,
but just some basic ones, and we will see,
why are we talking about HTML when
we're talking about PHP as well?
Because it doesn't sound initially like
something that has a relationship with in
terms of what do you need to
install in your computer?
The only thing that we will use
today is a PHP interpreter.
It has what is not downloading PHP.
Later I will explain how to do that,
what's the best practice to do
that on every operating system?
It's free, it's open source.
The website is php.net.
Then we will use a browser,
any browser will work.
And you have a browser and a code editor,
I'm going to use a BS code, but
you can use any other editor, or
whatever you wanna use, it's fine, okay?
We don't need anything else.